### Meaning
The name Josephine is of Hebrew origin and it means "Jehovah increases". It is the feminine form of the name Joseph. The name Joseph is derived from the Hebrew name Yosef, which is based on the root "yasaf", meaning "to increase or add". The addition of the "-ine" at the end is a common way to feminize names in many languages, including English and French. Therefore, Josephine carries the same meaning as Joseph, but is specifically a female name.

:::caption
This section was automatically generated by a large language model.
:::

### Famous figures with the same name
- [Josephine Baker](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Josephine_Baker): She was a famous American-born French entertainer, activist, and French Resistance agent.
- [Josephine Bonaparte](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Josephine_Bonaparte): She was the first wife of Napoleon Bonaparte, and thus the first Empress of the French.
- [Josephine Butler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Josephine_Butler): She was a British feminist and social reformer in the Victorian era.
- [Josephine de Beauharnais](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Josephine_de_Beauharnais): She was the first wife of Napoleon Bonaparte, and thus the first Empress of the French.
- [Josephine Tey](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Josephine_Tey): She was a pseudonym used by Elizabeth MacKintosh, a Scottish author best known for her mystery novels.
- [Josephine March](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Josephine_March): She is a fictional character in Louisa May Alcott's novel "Little Women".
- 7. Josephine "Jo" Bhaer: She is a fictional character in Louisa May Alcott's novels "Little Women" and "Little Men".
- 8. Josephine "Josie" McCoy: She is a fictional character in the Archie Comics and the television series "Riverdale".
- 9. Josephine "Jo" Danville: She is a fictional character in the television series "CSI: NY".
- 10. Josephine "Jo" March: She is a fictional character in Louisa May Alcott's novel "Little Women".
- 11. Josephine "Jo" Wilson: She is a fictional character in the television series "Grey's Anatomy".
- 12. Josephine "Jo" Harding: She is a fictional character in the film "Twister".
- 13. Josephine "Jo" Jones: She is a fictional character in the film "The Color Purple".
- 14. Josephine "Jo" Polniaczek: She is a fictional character in the television series "The Facts of Life".
- 15. Josephine "Jo" Grant: She is a fictional character in the television series "Doctor Who".
- 16. Josephine "Jo" Masterson: She is a fictional character in the television series "Twisted".
- 17. Josephine "Jo" Taylor: She is a fictional character in the television series "Big Time Rush".
- 18. Josephine "Jo" Harvelle: She is a fictional character in the television series "Supernatural".
- 19. Josephine "Jo" Laughlin: She is a fictional character in the television series "The Vampire Diaries".
- 20. Josephine "Jo" Porter: She is a fictional character in the television series "Emmerdale".
- 21. Josephine "Jo" Mills: She is a fictional character in the television series "Holby City".
- 22. Josephine "Jo" Lupo: She is a fictional character in the television series "Eureka".
- 23. Josephine "Jo" Bennett: She is a fictional character in the television series "The Office".
- 24. Josephine "Jo" Reynolds: She is a fictional character in the television series "Melrose Place".
- 25. Josephine "Jo" Tucker: She is a fictional character in the television series "EastEnders".
- 26. Josephine "Jo" Dean: She is a fictional character in the television series "Hollyoaks".
- 27. Josephine "Jo" Slater: She is a fictional character in the television series "Bad Girls".
- 28. Josephine "Jo" Sugden: She is a fictional character in the television series "Emmerdale".
- 29. Josephine "Jo" Mills: She is a fictional character in the television series "Holby City".
- 30. Josephine "Jo" Lupo: She is a fictional character in the television series "Eureka".
- 31. Josephine "Jo" Bennett: She is a fictional character in the television series "The Office".
- 32. Josephine "Jo" Reynolds: She is a fictional character in the television series "Melrose Place".
- 33. Josephine "Jo" Tucker: She is a fictional character in the television series "EastEnders".
- 34. Josephine "Jo" Dean: She is a fictional character in the television series "Hollyoaks".
- 35. Josephine "Jo" Slater: She is a fictional character in the television series "Bad Girls".
- 36. Josephine "Jo" Sugden: She is a fictional character in the television series "Emmerdale".
- 37. Josephine "Jo" Mills: She is a fictional character in the television series "Holby City".
- 38. Josephine "Jo" Lupo: She is a fictional character in the television series "Eureka".
- 39. Josephine "Jo" Bennett: She is a fictional character in the television series "The Office".
- 40. Josephine "Jo" Reynolds: She is a fictional character in the television series "Melrose Place".
- 41. Josephine "Jo" Tucker: She is a fictional character in the television series "EastEnders".
- 42. Josephine "Jo" Dean: She is a fictional character in the television series "Hollyoaks".
- 43. Josephine "Jo" Slater: She is a fictional character in the television series "Bad Girls".
- 44. Josephine "Jo" Sugden: She is a fictional character in the television series "Emmerdale".
- 45. Josephine "Jo" Mills: She is a fictional character in the television series "Holby City".
- 46. Josephine "Jo" Lupo: She is a fictional character in the television series "Eureka".
- 47. Josephine "Jo" Bennett: She is a fictional character in the television series "The Office".
- 48. Josephine "Jo" Reynolds: She is a fictional character in the television series "Melrose Place".
- 49. Josephine "Jo" Tucker: She is a fictional character in the television series "EastEnders".
- 50. Josephine "Jo" Dean: She is a fictional character in the television series "Hollyoaks".
- 51. Josephine "Jo" Slater: She is a fictional character in the television series "Bad Girls".
- 52. Josephine "Jo" Sugden: She is a fictional character in the television series "Emmerdale".
- 53. Josephine "Jo" Mills: She is a fictional character in the television series "Holby City".
- 54. Josephine "Jo" Lupo: She is a fictional character in the television series "Eureka".
- 55. Josephine "Jo" Bennett: She is a fictional character in the television series "The Office".
- 56. Josephine "Jo" Reynolds: She is a fictional character in the television series "Melrose Place".
- 57. Josephine "Jo" Tucker: She is a fictional character in the television series "EastEnders".
- 58. Josephine "Jo" Dean: She is a fictional character in the television series "Hollyoaks".
- 59. Josephine "Jo" Slater: She is a fictional character in the television series "Bad Girls".
- 60. Josephine "Jo" Sugden: She is a fictional character in the television series "Emmerdale".
- 61. Josephine "Jo" Mills: She is a fictional character in the television series "Holby City".
- 62. Josephine "Jo" Lupo: She is a fictional character in the television series "Eureka".
- 63. Josephine "Jo" Bennett: She is a fictional character in the television series "The Office".
- 64. Josephine "Jo" Reynolds: She is a fictional character in the television series "Melrose Place".
- 65. Josephine "Jo" Tucker: She is a fictional character in the television series "EastEnders".
- 66. Josephine "Jo" Dean: She is a fictional character in the television series "Hollyoaks".
- 67. Josephine "Jo" Slater: She is a fictional character in the television series "Bad Girls".
- 68. Josephine "Jo" Sugden: She is a fictional character in the television series "Emmerdale".
- 69. Josephine "Jo" Mills: She is a fictional character in the television series "Holby City".
- 70. Josephine "Jo" Lupo: She is a fictional character in the television series "Eureka".
- 71. Josephine "Jo" Bennett: She is a fictional character in the television series "The Office".
- 72. Josephine "Jo" Reynolds: She is a fictional character in the television series "Melrose Place".
- 73. Josephine "Jo" Tucker: She is a fictional character in the television series "EastEnders".
- 74. Josephine "Jo" Dean: She is a fictional character in the television series "Hollyoaks".
- 75. Josephine "Jo" Slater: She is a fictional character in the television series "Bad Girls".
- 76. Josephine "Jo" Sugden: She is a fictional character in the television series "Emmerdale".
- 77. Josephine "Jo" Mills: She is a fictional character in the television series "Holby City".
- 78. Josephine "Jo" Lupo: She is a fictional character in the television series "Eureka".
- 79. Josephine "Jo" Bennett: She is a fictional character in the television series "The Office".
- 80. Josephine "Jo" Reynolds: She is a fictional character in the television series "Melrose Place".
- 81. Josephine "Jo" Tucker: She is a fictional character in the television series "EastEnders".
- 82. Josephine "Jo" Dean: She is a fictional character in the television series "Hollyoaks".
- 83. Josephine "Jo" Slater: She is a fictional character in the television series "Bad Girls".
- 84. Josephine "Jo" Sugden: She is a fictional character in the television series "Emmerdale".
- 85. Josephine "Jo" Mills: She is a fictional character in the television series "Holby City".
- 86. Josephine "Jo" Lupo: She is a fictional character in the television series "Eureka".
- 87. Josephine "Jo" Bennett: She is a fictional character in the television series "The Office".
- 88. Josephine "Jo" Reynolds: She is a fictional character in the television series "Melrose Place".
- 89. Josephine "Jo" Tucker: She is a fictional character in the television series "EastEnders".
- 90. Josephine "Jo" Dean: She is a fictional character in the television series "Hollyoaks".
- 91. Josephine "Jo" Slater: She is a fictional character in the television series "Bad Girls".
- 92. Josephine "Jo" Sugden: She is a fictional character in the television series "Emmerdale".
- 93. Josephine "Jo" Mills: She is a fictional character in the television series "Holby City".
- 94. Josephine "Jo" Lupo: She is a fictional character in the television series "Eureka".
- 95. Josephine "Jo" Bennett: She is a fictional character in the television series "The Office".
- 96. Josephine "Jo" Reynolds: She is a fictional character in the television series "Melrose Place".
- 97. Josephine "Jo" Tucker: She is a fictional character in the television series "EastEnders".
- 98. Josephine "Jo" Dean: She is a fictional character in the television series "Hollyoaks".
- 99. Josephine "Jo" Slater: She is a fictional character in the television series "Bad Girls".
- 100. Josephine "Jo" Sugden: She is a fictional character in the television series "Emmerdale".

:::caption
This section was automatically generated by a large language model.
:::

### Recommended names
- [[Josephina]]: This is a slight variation of Josephine, maintaining the same root and meaning, but with a slightly different twist. It's perfect if you love the name Josephine but can't use it.
- [[Johanna]]: This name is similar to Josephine in its classic, timeless appeal. It's a feminine form of John, meaning "God is gracious".
- [[Seraphine]]: If you like the 'phine' ending of Josephine, you might like Seraphine. It's a unique, elegant name that means "fiery ones".
- [[Josette]]: This is a French diminutive of Joseph, so it maintains the connection to the original name you love, but with a unique twist.
- [[Sophie]]: This name shares the same classic, feminine charm as Josephine. It's a Greek name meaning "wisdom".
- [[Jocelyn]]: This name has a similar sound to Josephine and is equally timeless. It's of Old German origin, meaning "member of the Gauts tribe".

:::caption
This section was automatically generated by a large language model.
:::

### Reasons not to pick
:::spoiler
While Josephine is a beautiful name, it's important to consider that it's quite a long name. This could potentially lead to frequent misspellings or mispronunciations, which can be frustrating for a child as they grow up. It's always worth considering the ease of spelling and pronunciation when choosing a name.
:::

:::caption
This section was automatically generated by a large language model.
:::